Hello, today i would like to introduce my proposal of my thesis. The topic of my thesis is "Explanable model for time-series via ChatGPT".

I will firstly talk about my motivation why I  want to research for this topic. Then I will explain why I use ChatGPT. I have also conduct a preliminary experiment. Based on the experiment, I will introduce my methodology. Finally, I will introduce my evaluation of my research.

With the development of machine learning, explanability plays a more and more important role nowadays. It helps clients to trust the result generated by AI. Normally, researchers use feature importance to explain why AI generates such result. 

However, similar method can't be performed perfectly when it comes to time-series data. For example, there may be only 3 axises in data of human activity recognition. And it's not reasonable to take one axis as a important feature. To solve this problem, researchers always calculate a lot of complex formulas to generate features. However, these complex formulas is not user-friendly, because non-researchers need to understand the formula first. Even they understand the meaning of the feature, it's still difficult to build the understandable connection between features and data. 

My idea is to explain why the feature can contribute to the classification with the help of chatGPT. GPT can help understand the complex feature and link features with domain knowledge.

There are 2 deeper reasons why i use chatGPT. On one hand, time-series forecasting by chatGPT has been researched and its result is largely better than numerical-based method in zero-shot. On the other hand, researchers have showed GPT has the ability of casual inference, which helps to combine domain knowledge to classification.

Before I introduce my methodology, I will firstly introduce my preliminary experiment. I use the dataset of accelerometer in x-axis with different gestures. My prompt is divided to context part and query part. In context part, I will tell GPT the background of this classification, then I will give GPT a data sample and its features(Trend, direcional change, periodic flucations and so on). In query part, I will ask GPT which features are important, then I ask GPT to classify with the help of important features. In my experiment, GPT says Directional change and periodic fluctuation are important. I give GPT 4 options to choose, and GPT choose the correct one - shake hand.

In my methodology, I need to firstly prepocess the given dataset by imputing and standardization. Then I will generate features by tsfresh or other method. I will choose top 20 features. And let each time-series data sample have these features. Then I choose a few of them as the train data set, and let GPT with the help of train data set to classify test data set. At first, I will let GPT classify multiple features to calculate whether the prompt is good enough. If the prompt is good, I will let GPT classify only one sample and generate explanation of it, them check whether the explanation understandable manuelly.

The last part is the evaluation. My research data set is time series data sets about human activity recognition with base movement. And I need to generate intuitively understandable explaination
My target is to generate stable desired answer, which is correct and in format. And the answer should proved to be reliable, which have correct causal inference, good consistency and if i modify the original data, the result will be strongly affect.
